## Draft LOR Prof. V Sangwaan

It is with much pleasure and confidence that I am writing to you in support of Mr. Utkarsh Thakre for his Ph.D. application at the University _ _ _ _ _. He joined Unmesh Mashruwala Innovation Cell (UMIC) aerial robotics division as a trainee under my guidance at the end of his freshman year at IIT Bombay. UMIC is a reputed student-driven technical team that has won several international competitions like ASME Student Design Challenge, IGVC, IARC Simulation Challenge, etc. 

His work as a trainee in the mechanical subsystems primarily dealt with the design and fabrication of drone components and assembly. It involved him working extensively with 3D printing and Carbon fiber-reinforced composite parts. At one point of time during the preparation for the IARC competition, the team struggled with the issues related to structural design and precision of components fabricated. After repeated attempts, with his problem-solving skills and knowledge in Additive manufacturing, he solved the issues. Combining effective fabrication techniques, optimized designs, and materials, the team significantly reduced the drone weight, improved upon drone payload and durability. During one of the initial bi-monthly review meeting with the team, I was listening to Utkarsh presenting the work progress of his subsystem. I noticed he was highly enthusiastic, coming up with new ideas and strategies to improve upon the work and productivity of the team.

He has shown great teamwork and collaborating qualities throughout his work under my guidance in the team. Due to his works and contributions in the drone design and fabrication, he was promoted as the head of the mechanical subsystem of the team. He is not only a good leader but also an equally good mentor. He is highly proficient with essential design and modeling tools like Solidworks, Autocad, Ansys, Comsol, etc. Besides, he has extensive knowledge of manufacturing processes involving 3D printing, metal additive manufacturing, laser and water jet machining etc. He made sure all these skills were effectively passed on to the junior trainees under him. 

During my supervision of the team, I often noticed him not being hesitant to dive deeper into the topics and concepts. I believe he very much enjoyed research in the topics related to materials and manufacturing. In my opinion, he’s is very capable of undertaking and executing tasks independently much guidance required. I am very delighted with Utkarsh’s decision to pursue research in his domain of interest. Moreover, I am convinced that Utkarsh will prove himself to be a valuable contributor to the projects he will be assigned as a Ph.D student at the University of _ _ _ _ _. He is deserving of any financial assistance that can be offered as he goes through his Doctoral Studies. Please let me know if I can provide any additional information to support the decision-making process. 
